---
id: 142
title: TIME
date: '2023-03-17T13:39:42+00:00'
author: Andy
layout: page
guid: 'http://new.andydixon.com/?page_id=142'
---

TIME

Everything  
has always existed. At the dawn of time, there were missiles, television  
stations and X-rays, though they did not look like missiles etc. But all the  
bits and pieces that made up missiles etc were there. In different places, in a  
different order and the one thing, the thought, that unites them into missiles  
had not yet come along. Similarly, all future inventions are here now. But we  
have not yet recognised them or put them together.

Time is  
everywhere, all time exists. Visualise time as an infinite loop. Located along  
this loop are events. This does not imply that the same events will be  
experienced again, X million years from now. We do not travel past the same  
location twice. Time is only represented as a loop because it has no beginning  
and no end.

To visit  
any other time, you cross the loop, you do not travel round it. All other times  
are there and it is possible to experience them, to transfer yourself back into  
the past or forward into the future. It is possible to go there permanently,  
but why should you wish to do so, when you can travel anywhere?

It is  
not possible to change what has happened in the past. It has happened and is  
immutable. The future is being altered all the time. Every time you make a  
decision, it affects the future. There is a reaction to every action. To take  
an example, before the Second World War, a vast number of people signed the  
Peace Pledge. They may have done so with the best intentions, but it could be  
argued that so many people so obviously pro peace may have been the deciding  
factor in Germanyâ€™s taking the risk that Britain would not go to war over  
Poland. They had written evidence of a nation not committed to war. No-one can  
prove what influence the peace pledge had on the next few years. Without it, would  
the Second World War have taken place or not? Sometimes the result of an action  
is obvious, often it is imponderable, the only certainty being that the action  
has created a reaction.

The  
journey to another time is not physical. The body is unfitted for any existence  
other than this one. The event is there in the past and cannot be removed, so  
all that is necessary is to link up with that event. All the past and all the  
future already exist within your subconscious. As the future is fluid, it is  
often asked whether one would encounter the future as it is actually going to  
happen or as it will happen if present trends continue. The answer is both,  
because there are things which do not actually belong to this world which have  
an effect on the future.

Anonymous article taken from the Dark Lily Journal No 2,  
Society of Dark Lily (London 1987).