---
id: 163
title: 'TEENAGE SATANIST Part 2'
date: '2023-03-17T13:39:42+00:00'
author: Andy
layout: page
guid: 'http://new.andydixon.com/?page_id=163'
---

TEENAGE SATANIST

Part 2

To  
describe the reactions to DL, I may have to use the old cliché, no-one  
understands us. Very few people seem able to comprehend what we are about, and  
I find this surprising, because I thought that there were quite a few competent  
Occultists around. My expectations were too high. We produced papers to explain  
matters in greater detail, and, of the many who sent for these free papers,  
only six gave any indication that they had understood the concepts. The rest  
uttered platitudes like “fascinating”, “enthralling”. Of all the articles that  
have so far appeared in DL, the most popular was inserted for light relief,  
“Teenage Satanist”. As the author, I suppose I should feel flattered that there  
have been so many requests for the continuation of my story. If that’s your  
level, read on. If you are one of the few looking for genuine Occultism, skip  
this article. By the way, somewhere during this article, even the title  
(“teenage”) ceases to be relevant.

What  
brought me to Occultism in the first place, as detailed in DL1, was relevant,  
and what I am doing now, as shown elsewhere in the mag, is important, but the  
part in between… a history of mistakes, and there is, unfortunately, nothing  
new about that.

In the early years, I had no  
contact with other Occultists, but there was a well-stocked library in town and  
I read everything available. Classification 133 was the main source, though  
there were books vaguely relating to Occultism lurking in other sections, such  
as Alternative Medicine, UFOs and Ancient History. I was aware of a deep  
interest in Ancient Egypt, though I could not accept the simplistic notions of  
reincarnation. But, at that time, there was no other explanation for my strange  
“memories”. I read a book about the last reigns of the Eighteenth Dynasty, in  
which the Pharaoh Amenhotep IV (who changed his name to Akhenaton) was  
eulogised as an enlightened visionary and that Horemheb, his successor, was  
called a usurper and military dictator. I was furious! I knew that Akhenaton’s  
failure to face his responsibilities nearly resulted in the destruction of  
Egypt; and that Horemheb was the saviour of his country, his people and his  
gods. Fortunately I found some books which agreed with my view, but I could  
not, at that time or for some years afterwards, find any explanation other than  
the theory of reincarnation for my knowledge of and sense of involvement in  
events three and a half thousand years ago.

I  
studied Tarot and, when my interest in clairvoyance became known, I was invited  
to do the fortune-telling at the Annual Garden Party. This drew protests from  
the local clergy; fortune-telling was all right as a side-show providing it was  
done by a respectable old lady who read tea-leaves. But a teenage girl with the  
“Devil’s Picture Book” (yes one of them actually used that phrase!) was taboo.

One  
clairvoyant incident which I remember occurred when a boy at school announced  
that, the following weekend, he was taking his girlfriend to the seaside on his  
motorcycle. I “knew” that they were going to be involved in a serious accident.  
But what could I say? If I had warned them, they would have probably thought  
that I was jealous, that I wanted to be the one taken to the seaside. So I was  
too concerned with my reputation to do anything to save them. There was an  
accident, from which neither would fully recover.

I  
realised that being able to foresee future events (usually unpleasant  
incidents) was rarely useful. I “saw” an old lady falling as she got off a bus.  
I told her to be very careful, and she was quite impressed by my warning, but,  
whether or not she remembered it, the accident happened; she broke her hip,  
which, at her age, created a terminal condition.

Much  
more interesting than clairvoyance was the apparent ability to curse. A girl  
who had spread malicious gossip about me was attacked whilst on her way home  
from school one dark winter’s evening. A teacher who disliked me became so ill  
that she had to retire early. Although I was not on good terms with my parents,  
I was careful not to ill-wish them, as their premature demise would have forced  
me to live with my bigoted grandmother.

I rarely  
saw my other grandmother because my parents avoided her. So I was somewhat  
surprised when she invited me to visit her one day, and even more surprised when  
I found out that the reason for her ostracism by the family was that she was a  
Witch.

She  
taught me a lot about herbs, which was quite interesting but of little use, as  
herbs are not often effective. I hated getting my hands dirty in her herb  
garden, but discovered a great enthusiasm for collecting and identifying  
stones.

My  
grandmother invited me to join her “circle” (they did not use the word coven)  
and I attended a few times, but found it boring. I knew that I was searching  
for something far beyond this.

I left  
college and my parents’ home. In the big city, I met a High Priest of Odin, and  
the relationship lasted until his death some years later. As a Priestess of the  
Left Hand Path, I found nothing in Odinism which conflicted with my views, and  
I soon became aware why the real Odinism and its complex theology was and still  
is one of the most secretive of Occult beliefs. I had been warned not to  
experiment with the Runes “just to see if they work”. They do work, very  
dramatically, but of course I had to find that out for myself, and one example  
was when I wanted a simple little downpour to dampen an outdoor function; the  
resultant storm disrupted telephones and electricity, brought down trees and  
chimneys, and caused the river to burst its banks.

After my  
High Priest’s death, I drifted around for a few years, experimenting with  
Occultism of various kinds and becoming disillusioned with everything. I had  
for some time been in contact with a Satanist; it did not take me long to  
realise that, despite his grandiloquent claims, he had no real knowledge or  
power. But he was a successful conman, selling Occult “secrets” to the gullible  
who thought that such abilities could be brought with money or (if female)  
another form of payment. He knew that he did not have enough knowledge to  
maintain the pose for very long on his own, so he suggested a partnership. It  
rapidly became obvious that I could do much better without him, but, whilst I  
was personally salting away quite a bit from the joint venture, I had other  
things on my mind. And someone else had other plans for me.

To Be Continued

as I expect that reader will want  
to know how I met my Master.

Anonymous article taken from the Dark Lily Journal No 5,  
Society of Dark Lily (London 1988).