---
id: 172
title: 'The Need For Tradition'
date: '2023-03-17T13:39:43+00:00'
author: Andy
layout: page
guid: 'http://new.andydixon.com/?page_id=172'
---

The Need For Tradition

Destroying  
a tradition without considering what to put in its place is more dangerous than  
nuclear war. I am not defending tradition for traditions sake. It is not merely  
the tradition that is thrown out, it is the spirit.

A tradition’s  
benefits are intangible. Similarly, a house does not do anything. It serves us  
simply by being there. A computer does many things, but if you had to choose  
between a house and computer, there would be no contest.

People,  
for a host of reasons, are too willing to opt for change for the sake of change  
or because a small number of people find it in their interests to have that  
change, but the general benefit of the change is doubtful. This can be best  
observed by looking carefully at a country such as the USA. It still counts as  
a young country and every adult was once a child. Americans have got far too  
much power for their own good and most of it was thrust upon them. Now they are  
in the position of having pushed off from the quayside of childhood. They are  
in mid ocean and they cannot see the shore of adulthood. They do not have a  
target. There is very little shaping events for them except, mainly, outside  
forces.

Change  
should be a matter of evolution rather than some hastily-taken decision.  
Hunting is one of those things that could so easily be abandoned by everyone  
but the vacuum would not be pleasant. America is good at this, finding new  
things but no-one has had time to work out what they really mean.

No-one  
who campaigns against hunting has any grasp of what abolishing fox-hunting  
really means. At this moment in time it is not going to happen, so it does not  
really matter. It matters more and more as abolition gets closer. This is a  
very complex subject and it does not just concern fox-hunting. What do you  
think this country would be like if every habit and tradition over thirty years  
old was suddenly eradicated?

People  
who wish to abolish fox-hunting cannot be sure that the damage they are doing  
is not greater than hunting foxes. The longer a tradition survives, the more  
“soul” it gets. No-one considers enough what it is they are really doing before  
they do it. They don’t like this, so get rid of it, but no-one really knows  
what they are getting rid of. This is why Iran went through such a change when  
they got rid of the Shah. Al it started out as was an attempt to restore some  
of the more basic Islamic traditions. They have gone over the top, in part  
because of what they were trying to do, but a great deal has to do with  
pressure from other people from outside. In a little over a couple of decades,  
the Shah destroyed a lot of Islamic traditions and the country is reaping the  
doubtful harvest of that now. For a revolution to be successful, it must be  
capable of getting rid of what it set out to remove without putting something  
equally bad in its place. Leaders of a revolution always move into the palace  
vacated by their predecessors.

When  
something is disposed of, in a cosmic as well as a physical sense, there is a  
void and something has to fill it. But the people who are responsible for  
disposing of it do not want the responsibility of replacing it. They will  
bulldoze it flat, but they will leave it to someone else to put something in  
its place. Not a responsible attitude.

No-one  
ever invents something to replace tradition. It happens by accident, in a  
hotch-potch manner. If it is traditional, it is established, settled, a known  
quantity, usually balanced. That which replaces it cannot be any of those  
things. That includes fox-hunting, which is to be replaced by the  
indiscriminate slaughter: traps, gas, poison. They cannot differentiate between  
the harmful and the harmless wild creatures.

Witchcraft  
was the traditional religion of Britain and other countries. It was replaced by  
Christianity, which is still too new and too unsure of itself to be anything  
other than bloodthirsty.

Describe  
a country that does not have any tradition older than thirty years. You will  
not like the result, but it is a possibility for the future. If it happens, it  
is one of the things that cannot be un-happened, but no-one would like it;  
everyone would blame everyone else, no-one would accept responsibility.

To be  
receptive, empty your mind, create a vacuum.

Getting rid of tradition creates  
a very large void. Those who seek abolition in any form have no idea what will  
take its place.

Anonymous  
article taken from the Dark Lily Journal No 6, Society of Dark Lily (London  
1988).