---
id: 165
title: 'The Owning of People'
date: '2023-03-17T13:39:42+00:00'
author: Andy
layout: page
guid: 'http://new.andydixon.com/?page_id=165'
---

THE OWNING OF PEOPLE

There  
are only two types of people in the world: rulers and servants. People are born  
to own or to be owned. It is only necessary to be able to recognise those who  
are servants and those who are rulers.

Most who  
read this are too conditioned to understand and so they will interpret it  
politically. It has nothing to do with the family one was born into, one’s  
social or political position or wealth. Those who are truly born to rule appear  
in all walks of life. It is a matter solely for the individual.

Some  
people cannot accept responsibility for themselves or others. They might like  
the privilege but they cannot handle the responsibility that goes with it.  
Throughout history, every time a slave-class was emancipated, many freed slaves  
chose to remain in servitude with their former owners and, of those who  
gleefully took their freedom and departed, the majority returned within a short  
space of time. Many who are natural servants are made unhappy by people trying  
to teach them that they do not have to serve. When they get out of the safety  
of serving, they do not like the wilderness in which they find themselves.

It is  
necessary to be careful who you own. One does not want to own a lot of trash. I  
do not own many unworthy people, but I own every worthy person I have ever come  
upon whom I think I can use. I even own some who are born leaders. If you  
cannot serve, you cannot rule. It is impossible and you should not try it. That  
would be as meaningless as a vicar talking about sin; he knows nothing about it  
if he has never had the courage to sin.

People  
can be used, as the commander of an army may find it necessary to use  
mercenaries to supplement his loyal followers. But, after the battle, a  
sensible general will dispose of the mercenaries, even if he has to kill them.  
People who are born to rule know when it is necessary to kill and they will not  
flinch from doing it. To take another example, a besieged town: the inhabitants  
are promised their lives if they surrender, but a competent besieger will not  
keep that promise. It is a simple law of geometry that there is no way he can  
march from that town that does not leave it at his back. To take responsibility  
for certain people might mean eventually eliminating them. Those who are worthy  
will remain my servants for ever.

Not all  
my servants know that they are owned. Some have been placed in position for a  
specific purpose, to be used when the need arises. In espionage terms they  
would be called sleepers. When the time comes, they will perform because that  
is why they were put there, at a carefully-chosen time and place in the past.  
Owning someone does not mean that I control his or her every action; it means  
that I do not need to.

Occultists  
are taught that they must know themselves. However, because of the political  
connotations which have been falsely attached to this matter, few teachers dare  
deal with the question and few pupils dare face the reality. Whether one is a  
natural ruler or a natural servant is no hindrance to Occult or any other form  
of progress. But inability or unwillingness to acknowledge one’s nature forms  
the insurmountable barrier.

Anonymous article taken from the  
Dark Lily Journal No 5, Society of Dark Lily (London 1988).