---
id: 130
title: Physinomes
date: '2023-03-17T13:39:42+00:00'
author: Andy
layout: page
guid: 'http://new.andydixon.com/?page_id=130'
---

Physinomes

The  
simplest way to explain physinomes is to use an example. When driving very  
fast, the only way to take a corner is on the right-hand side, that is, in  
England, the wrong side of the road. To make a habit of this, and survive, I  
must know when not to undertake this manoeuvre, when there is another vehicle,  
concealed by the bend, travelling towards me. Other drivers may say that, in  
such circumstances, they use their instinct; but instinct is an indefinable and  
unreliable means of ensuring survival. The internal apparatus which tells me  
when it is safe and when it is not safe, I call physinomes; an inbuilt warning  
system of cell-receptors and transmitters which exists in every human and being  
and in some is highly developed.

Physinomes  
are effective in many instances other than giving warnings. For example, there  
is no such thing as invisibility. The effect called invisibility is the fact of  
not being noticed. It is ones physinomes which advertise one’s presence or,  
when specifically retracted, ensure that one can pass unnoticed.

Physinomes  
sense the atmosphere in any location; they tell whether or not a person has  
been there, possibly identify that person.

The phenomenon is known in  
martial arts. Part of the combat training in martial arts techniques is to  
detect the presence of a potential enemy whom you cannot see. For example, when  
he is behind you, without turning around to see him and letting him know that  
he has been seen, you must be aware of how close he is, whether directly behind  
or to the right or the left. From the change in his signals, you must be able  
to detect when he moves from a passive to an offensive stance, that is, when he  
actually makes his attack. Assuming the attacker is trained, if you have got it  
wrong, you don’t get two chances, so, when he makes his attack, you must know  
exactly where behind you the attack is coming from.

In a  
non-martial arts context, your physinomes reacting to an impression made in the  
atmosphere can tell you when a person or persons in a room, although they have  
not said anything, have plans for you which are not in your best interests.

Everyone  
has head the expression: “you could cut the atmosphere with a knife.” This is  
as a result of quite undisguised tension between two people or two groups of  
people. If you possess the ability to listen to your physinomes, they will tell  
you when the atmosphere, although outwardly friendly, is really charged against  
you. This applies in commerce as well as in the social field. Depending on how  
developed you are, the warning can be anything from a feeling of general  
disquiet to real alarm concerning a specific subject. The legendary “sixth  
sense”, an instinctive awareness of danger, is, in fact, the physinomes  
speaking to you in a language you have not yet learned to understand.

Anonymous  
article taken from the Dark Lily Journal No 1, Society of Dark Lily (London  
1987).