---
id: 221
title: EMBASAT
date: '2023-03-17T13:39:43+00:00'
author: Andy
layout: page
guid: 'http://new.andydixon.com/?page_id=221'
---

EMBASAT

Satanism  
is not the simplistic doctrine of license and chaos, which is its  
sensationalized primary attraction. I don’t think anyone reading DL, or TBF, or  
Trident will disagree. The alternative for society is too grave.

Abdicating  
the self entirely from social responsibility and reliance is immature,  
irrational and dangerous. Isolationism, especially if self-induced, is suicidal  
and misanthropic, not Satanic. This goes for groups as well as individuals.  
Indeed, there is far greater gains in power, security and opportunity for self  
and community in support of social stability.

Satanism  
is a matter of social community. Satanists are contributors to the success and  
propagation of the social unit, to ensure personal and individual success as  
well. Religion is parasitical, exploitive, isolating, dividing and detrimental  
to human development… suicidal! Satanism is NOT a religion!

Satan  
symbolizes power, vision, instinct and humanity. When these elements are  
unified in an individual (androgeny), according to need and circumstance, the  
Mark of SATAN can be seen. Satanists are developed by the favourable conditions  
of a Satanic upbringing. Its social environment is created and maintained by  
the natural instinct for harmony common to Satanists. Community and individual  
potential are the keys for developing Satanists. Social Realism is a state of  
being for the maturing Satanist.

EMBASAT  
is an institution of matured Satanism. Prior to EMBASAT, Satanism was only  
another religion. EMBASAT is the vision of life in the future without religion.  
The potential for human development, without the massive burden of religious  
influence, is enormous, more so because patriarchy exists also.

The  
symbol of Satanism is the reconciliation of opposites… duality united… androgeny.  
This is Baphomet (‘wisdom’). Our seminal development acclaims S.A.T.A.N.  
(Survival And The Androgyne Nataion) as the imperative. No church, no religion,  
no elitist fundamentalism, no invisible mysteries or holy laws. Just a rational  
concept of the future, and how to get there in one piece. This is an embassage  
of realists with more than simple hopes and dreams, but with keys… keys to  
understanding, compassion, realization and actualities. This is the Embassy of  
S.A.T.A.N., with a duty to train and send forth its ambassadors as a force for  
change which has never been attempted. It will take perseverance, commitment  
and applied psychology, not only of benefit to the individual, but for the  
community, too, which is mutually enriching. As we draw ever nearer to the end  
of the century, ominous signs emerge, forcing the question to each of us, that  
we either forge our future, or be relegated to the past, because most of us  
will live to see what is about to happen.

Yaj Nomolos, S.P.

Magus EMBASAT

p14-15 Dark Lily Journal No 12. Society of Dark Lily  
(London 1991)