---
id: 177
title: 'Good and Evil 2'
date: '2023-03-17T13:39:43+00:00'
author: Andy
layout: page
guid: 'http://new.andydixon.com/?page_id=177'
---

READERS’ PROJECT

A definition of good and evil

ESSAY NUMBER TWO

\[Editor’s  
note: the numbering does not imply any grading and is solely for the purpose of  
identifying each article on this subject.\]

Good and evil are moral  
concepts. Morality is the doctrine of man’s moral duties. The study of moral  
philosophy is the study of ethics. Good and evil are also theological concepts.  
Theology is the study of religion and the body of doctrines concerning God,  
including God’s attributes and relations with humanity.

Strictly  
speaking, morality is conformity to conventional rules, or apart from,  
inspiration and guidance by religion, or other spiritual influences. Custom and  
conventional rules may be partly or fully determined or originally shaped by  
theological considerations. But, when theological considerations are forgotten  
and custom continues by virtue of social inertia, custom is no longer the  
province of theology, but of morality in its own right. Morality enforced by  
state sanction is known as “the law”.

Custom  
determines what the conventional rules of morality are. Customs arise for a  
number of anthropological, sociological, theological, political and other  
reasons, and customs change and vary within the groups that constitute any  
given society. Because customs, and hence morality (what is considered to be  
moral behaviour) changes and varies, one cannot rationally posit an “absolute  
morality” in purely moral, i.e. ethical, i.e. human terms.

An  
absolute morality must, by virtue of it being absolute, descend from an  
absolute in order to be valid. Humans are many things, but one thing they are  
not is absolute. That is, they are not free from restriction or relation. They  
are not unlimited, independent or unconditional. If an “absolute morality” is  
based upon a thing that is anything less than absolute, then it is a lie.

Many  
religions, especially the revealed religions (Christianity, Islam, etc),  
recognise this and claim the rules, theology and practice they follow proceed  
directly from God, and so are unquestionable. It is from religion that the  
first ideas of absolute morality, and hence absolute good and absolute evil,  
proceed.

The  
existence and non-existence of an external, omnipotent, omniscient,  
omnipresent, absolute being (who may or may not take a personal interest in  
humanity), who is generally known as God, has been the subject of some debate  
over the years, and it is not proposed to resolve the matter here.

What is  
certain is that, if a God does exist, then the possibility of an absolute  
definition of good and evil exists. It is also possible that such a definition  
would have nothing to do with humanity in anything but the most abstract and  
impersonal terms, and that would be rather depressing, in the way that it was  
rather depressing to discover that the Earth isn’t the centre of the Universe.

In any  
event, the definition would itself have to be derived from what is known to be  
absolutely true about God. Since opinion varies as to the existence, let alone  
attributes of God, the resulting definition would at the very least be rather  
suspect.

Abandoning  
the quest for an absolute definition of good and evil, one might, of necessity,  
look for other premises that relate to the fundamentals of the human condition  
or fundamentals of dynamics or any fundamental at all. Some of these will be  
useful, others not.

One  
might, for instance, base a moral system on the premise that the continuation  
of the human race is the ultimate good and the extinction of the human race is  
the ultimate evil. Being human, this has a certain charm.

One  
might attempt to relate humanity to the cosmos by basing an ethical and/or  
magical/religious system upon the premise that the first force in the cosmos  
was by definition the prime good and that the first restriction on the prime  
force was the prime evil, albeit that a restriction of force is necessary to  
enable work.

In each  
of the two cases above, the premise one assumes is determined by what one  
wishes to achieve. Good and evil cease to be abstract concepts and become means  
of action that are consistent with the objective which is itself predetermined  
by the premise structure.

By  
taking this road, one finds that the nature of the question has changed and  
that this will be our salvation! Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition.

The  
original question was “define good and evil”. This implies that “good” and  
“evil” are things in themselves that exist, in some sense, independently, when  
even this cursory examination of the matter has tended to indicate that “good”  
and “evil”, in order to be meaningful in any real sense, must be assigned  
values rather than examined for values. “define +x and –x”. The question is  
meaningless unless other conditions are appended to it or other assumptions are  
made.

There is  
no good but the good you define for yourself. There is no evil but that which  
prevents you from achieving what you conceive to be the good. There’s more to  
it than that, of course, but isn’t there always? And that’s when the fun  
starts.

From the Dark Lily Journal No 7, Society of Dark Lily  
(London 1988).