---
id: 148
title: 'THE FIVE HORSEMEN'
date: '2023-03-17T13:39:42+00:00'
author: Andy
layout: page
guid: 'http://new.andydixon.com/?page_id=148'
---

THE FIVE HORSEMEN

The  
fascination of watching horses is universal. With tail flying and nostrils  
flared, the horse makes a powerful being. We also watch with wonder when the  
horse is mounted, the kill of the horseman apparent. Such horses and their  
riders leave us impressed – but what of the horses and riders of the  
Apocalypse? Are they as mysterious and awesome as we are led to believe?

Try to  
imagine now, thundering towards you, four or maybe five skilled riders. Take  
note now of the colour of the horses, as each appears different. One white, one  
red, one black and one a sickly greenish-yellow. Firmly seated on each is a  
rider. Please note, I only talk of fours riders, because evidence of the fifth  
is scant, but I believe there to be another, and that horse is mauve.

The  
apostle John wrote: “Then I saw a white horse and its rider carried a bow. He  
was given a crown and he rode forth as a victor to conquer… And another horse  
came forth, bright red, and its rider was given power to take peace away from  
the earth and make men slaughter one another; he was given a great sword… And  
there I saw a black horse and its rider had a pair of scales in his hand and I  
heard a voice say: ‘Wheat at a day’s wage and barley at a day’s wage’… And  
there I saw a horse the colour of ashes and it’s rider’s name was Death and  
Hades followed him. They were given the power over a quarter of the earth, to  
kill the people with a sword, famine, death and the wild animals of the earth.”  
\[Rev. 6:2-8\]

Since this was first written, it  
has puzzled the reader. Many so-called great and learned men, and women come to  
that, have passed comment or have told the less intelligent to accept their  
interpretation. But what was represented by these mysterious horses and their  
riders? Does their ride have any bearing on life today, or, indeed has their  
ride even begun? The greatest variance is found in the explanation of the white  
horse and its rider. This first white rider was of much importance. The New  
Catholic Encyclopaedia says the white horse represents the victory of the  
gospel of truth – but whose truth? The book of Daniel says: “the white horse is  
an emblem of truth of the gospel”. Whose gospel? The rider’s perhaps. The  
whiteness of the horse denotes the purity of the faith. A faith in what or whom?  
We can all have purity in faith in someone or something.

The  
white horse denotes a cause. After all, it comes first, its stance is  
victorious, with the promise of future triumph. Its cause is the world and its  
kingdom is in the midst of us and they that oppose it, I believe, will be  
overwhelmed with defeat. I believe the rider of the white horse to be the  
Antichrist. My beliefs are not just personal ones. Much christian literature  
goes to great lengths to denounce my views, some even acknowledge them (like  
the Christian Jewish Foundation). So why do they make such efforts to keep the  
truth from the people, because I believe they know that sometime, someplace,  
someone like me and you will start somewhere and want to know the truth. This  
is why they hide the truth from us and make it difficult in today’s world to  
oppose them. Many people in the past have been content to let them have their  
way, it was easy, but now the people are becoming restless, there has to be  
more, things don’t add up, why should I not do this and not do that? So many  
people are restless. I am restless, my search has begun.

Still,  
back to the horsemen of the Apocalypse… Previously I stated that the white  
horse and its rider represented victory to its word (the horseman). But the world  
has not been informed or encouraged to seek the true word or its meaning. I was  
told that there is no place in the bible where it says that the rider of the  
white horse is the Antichrist, that he could not go forth conquering and  
complete his conquest. I say that if they go to extremes to disprove this fact,  
they must feel the fact was there is the first place. I believe the Antichrist  
has already commenced his ride and nears its end. He now deserves the  
recognition from his true followers and the way should now be made clear by us  
for him and those seeking his truth. His conquest will not fail; his enemies  
will be destroyed.

Later in  
Revelation, the white horse is mentioned again. Here it is called Faithful and  
True. The word of God, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Let us examine these  
statements.

Faithful  
and True… faith… trust: belief in one’s word… loyal: keeping one’s promise.  
True… agreeing with what really happened. Not false. These two words explain  
themselves. We should place importance on who is saying them.

The word  
of God… who do we see as God, who do you see as God? To me there are many gods.  
My God was born with me, grew with me and is very much part of me. I was told:  
“the only god is the one between your ears”. I have no reason at this stage to  
think any different. Bearing this in mind, I must live by my word, act  
on my word and be answerable to my word by whoever challenges it.  
The word of God – words spoken by me.

King of  
Kings, Lord of Lords. We accept that the Antichrist is above all else. Words  
cannot for me at this stage describe his position. It is something I accept,  
but obviously, the more I learn, the higher I must place him. This would be so  
with any person. The more you know someone and learn from him, the more, it  
follows, you place him in high esteem.

So I am  
left in no doubt that the rider of the white horse is the Antichrist. His ride  
has begun; as he leads and instructs his direct followers, they, in turn, will  
lead and instruct me. I will lead and instruct others, and so it will continue.  
“Go subduing in the midst of your enemies”. There will be many people so called  
but few will be chosen to ride with the horseman. The tasks ahead will be  
testing ones. It could take past my lifetime to complete, and we shall look at  
this further, but we shall all play our part in bringing about the truth.

The  
second horse is bright red and it is said that the rider was granted permission  
to take peace away from the earth so that they should slaughter one another,  
and he was given a great sword. Could this sword be significant, inasmuch as it  
is the emblem of Satanism. Could the peace that was taken be the complacency of  
the people and not peace at all, could this feeling be the feeling when  
suddenly something comes to light and people have to face the truth. People say  
anything for a quiet life and, up to now, have been able to go along with this.  
I think the only slaughter will be the justice which those people will reap who  
have lied and prevented us from knowing and seeking the truth and living our  
lives our way.

The  
third horse is black and its rider has a pair of scales. The rider’s call is  
today very true and we know it as inflation. As the world progresses, people  
naturally want more or, at least, the same as their supposed betters. There is  
bound to be unrest. Until now, people have been content with their lot. It was  
unheard of to ask for what you wanted or something different. I never thought  
that I could ask for something I wanted, not directly, so have spent too many  
years beating around the bush, hoping someone will realise what I am about and  
give me what I want without actually having to ask. I have been conditioned to  
accept my lot. Now people are awakening and realising, like me, that they can  
have what they want and do what they want. Agreed, the world is still not ready  
and, to a certain extent, we must go about this in the correct manner. In any  
form of civilisation, there will always be those who will take unfair advantage  
of a given situation, so I feel it is up to us, or people like me I should say,  
to prevent or stop this happening. I will not let these people use my beliefs  
as a curtain to place around their misdemeanours. These people will be uprooted  
and shown for what they are.

The  
fourth hose was a sickly greenish-yellow and brought death. Death comes to us  
all, we may prolong it, we may even hasten it, but we cannot elude it. If we  
live our chosen path to the full, we should not be afraid of death,  
because in death we have life. The Christians talk of their soul. I believe in  
a soul, but not in their way. My soul walks hand in hand with my god. My soul  
is made up of my thoughts, my memory, my feelings. Physically I am sitting  
here, mentally I can be there with him. Standing now right by his side. If my  
body dies now, my thoughts, my mind, my soul would remain with him or wherever  
I chose to be. So, although my body dies, I live on.

We now  
come to the fifth horse and rider. He seems to ride farther back, bringing up  
the rear. I chose the colour mauve because that is how I see him. I can find no  
written evidence to back up my claim. The bible refers to Hades, but not as a  
horseman. Rev. 6:8 “and I saw a pale horse and the one seated on it was death  
and another followed him, his name was Hades”. So, this fifth horseman, what  
purpose is he? I believe to tidy up, to recover anything or anyone worth  
recovering. To leave behind no trace of the afore riders. A caretaker of after  
events.

Anonymous article taken from the  
Dark Lily Journal No 3, Society of Dark Lily (London 1987).